Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee. I'm a very flattered and honored to have one of my best friends in the Senate with us today.
He's a very popular and able member of the United States Senate from the second largest state in the Union, the state of Texas, Ralph Yarbrough.
And thank you very much Ralph for coming and being with me on this program.
Senator Keith Oliver, thank you for this invitation. This is a real honor to be on this program.
Many people came to Texas from Tennessee and from many other states. My grandfather was born in that great volunteer state.
And of course you represented the Democratic Party in all the states of the Union and we're grateful for the help you've given us in Texas.
If your speeches for the Democratic Party, you know that's not a nice, we're mighted proud of all the Texans who came from Tennessee.
And I know that your grandfather was a born up in Cumberland County, I think, and lived up there, didn't he Ralph?
Right up somewhere in the northern part, the central part of it, northern Tennessee.
Well, I had the pleasure of being a co-sponsor of a bill at Senator Yarbrough. I took the leadership in and worked through the committee and passed on the floor of the Senate this week, a very important bill called the Cool War GI.
The bill of rights. And I want you to explain about the bill, will you?
First, Senator Keith Oliver, thank you for being a co-sponsor and adding your influence and making that very able argument for the bill on the floor of the Senate that helps so much in its passage.
This bill is to continue the, basically, the benefits of the Korean War bill to the veterans of the Cold War.
That is the period since January 1955 until the draft ends in 1963. And it provides for educational and vocational educational opportunities for these veterans for loans on homes and farms.
But it does not have mustering out pay and does not have business loans. A lot of the veterans organizations felt it shouldn't be as broad as the conflict period.
It's not as broad, but it does carry the educational opportunities.
Well, I think the GI bill of rights was one of the best pieces of legislation that Congress passed.
In Tennessee, more than 200,000 young men and women took advantage of it, getting education, also buying a home and buying a farm.
And this extends some of the benefits to those who are serving since 1955, isn't that correct?
That's correct. As long as they draft runs until 1963, they'll have an opportunity to go to college where they've been in service.
And that's 45% of the young men who are better in their service.
How many would be eligible for benefits under this bill?
Four million will be eligible about half will take them. The experience of World War II and the Korean conflict is that only 50% of the veterans go to school under the belt.
Four million will be eligible. We should have two million more and will raise the educational level of our people with the law.
I think that about 93,000 will be eligible in the state of Tennessee under this new program.
And I know it'll mean a whole lot to these young men.
Now, Senator Long had an amendment which was adopted to your bill, Senator Yarber. Will you tell what that was?
Well, the opposition to the Democratic Party wanted to make this wholly alone program.
Senator Long had a compromise proposal.
At sub-college level, high school and vocational education is still a grant.
The first year in college will be a grant program. But if the student falls in the bottom 50% of his class, then it'll have to borrow money.
But if it can raise his grades as long as it stays in the top 50% of his class in college, it would be a grant by the government.
And as I understand this would last for three years as a maximum amount that anybody can get under the program.
That's correct, Senator McKeef, already got to go to school a day and a half each day of service, but not over three years of education.
Now, how about the home and farm loan provisions of the bill?
That is to permit them to make direct loans just like the Korean and the World War II veterans to have a direct loan for a home or a farm.
Particularly helpful in the rural areas, this old and credit for farm home.
Senator Yarlborough, I want to congratulate you upon the leadership you have finished and presenting this bill and getting it passed in the Senate.
And certainly good to have you with us.
Thank you for this opportunity.
That's all, and thank you for your help.
Thank you very much.